Read time: 3 minutes

Today is the 2nd day of your 5-Day Mini Course on Breaking Phone Addiction.

=== Lesson 2 TLDR ===
Social Media and news platforms are expertly engineered to exploit our ancient brain wiring and capture our attention. 

This email unveils their manipulative strategies.

---

Today we're talking about:
1. The Caveman Brain's Reward System
2. The Godlike Power of the Feed (According to the Experts Who Built Them)

"The real problem of humanity is the following: We have Paleolithic emotions, medieval institutions and godlike technology. And it is terrifically dangerous." ― Edward O. Wilson

---

1. The Caveman Brain's Reward System

Hey {{.FirstName}},

Manny and Mike back with you.

Yesterday, we touched on the what of phone addiction – the shocking amount of time lost, the negative impacts.

Today, we're pulling back the curtain on the why. Why is it so darn hard to put our phones down?

Imagine you have a time machine.

One day, you go back 100,000 years (#PaleolithicEra). You see a few cavemen, some cave art, and even a woolly mammoth. Good times.

You get hungry. You can't find any bacon or avocado toast (#FoodSoBoringEra), so you decide to come back to the present. As you are warping through time, you notice something strange: A cavebaby slipped into the time machine.

So, what happens to the cavebaby? Well aside from the moral issues, the cavebaby would grow up like any other human in today's world.

In other words, our brains are exactly the same as our Stone Age ancestors.

This is important because our brains have developed strong reward systems, designed to:
- Find food
- Connect with our tribe
- Mate
- Notice danger

The thing is that, for the far majority of human history, food and information were scarce, social connections and mating opportunities were few, and immediate threats were constant.

In modern times, however, things are extremely different.

We went from absolute reward scarcity to a firehose of content that triggers our deepest social and reward circuits 24 hours a day.

Find food –> unlimited food pics
Connect with our tribe –> unlimited likes
Mate –> unlimited swipes and attractive influencers
Notice danger –> unlimited end of the world news

In other words we went 0 to 1,000,000,000,000,000 in two short decades.

This buffet of unlimited content is only half of what makes social media, dating apps, and news sites so addictive.

The other half is how the experts designed and engineered them to manipulate you.

---

2. The Godlike Power of the Feed (According to the Experts Who Built Them)

In some ways, social media platforms know you better than you know yourself.

They track your every click, every scroll, every second you linger on a post. They know your likes, dislikes, fears, hopes, and vulnerabilities.

They use this data and plug it into a 'Godlike' advanced algorithm. The algorithm then manipulates your feed, so that you stay hooked.

The more time you spend, the more data they collect, and the more they adjust your feed to keep you on it even longer.

Step away from your feed? The notifications are designed to interrupt your focus and pull you back into the feed, even when there's nothing truly urgent, preying on our evolved sensitivity to social signals.

This isn't a conspiracy theory; your attention, is quite literally, the “product” that the social media platforms sell to advertisers. When you keep scrolling on the feed, you get more targeted ads, and the social media platform makes a greater profit.

It's a vicious cycle built for capitalism.

Perhaps most telling, is that the people who built these technologies, express deep remorse about their impacts. They understand the levers of influence they created and how it's altering societies behaviors by exploiting our fundamental caveman brain wiring.

Even more, in their personal lives at home, most of them have set up systems to protect themselves from too much screen time. They keep their kids away from it all. Many have even quit social media altogether.

Feeling disgusted? Understanding how social media is designed is the first step towards defusing its power.

Tomorrow, we'll go into habit change science and kickstart your moves away from these manipulative designs.

Stay tuned,

Mike and Manny

PS: Want to know more about this 'Godlike' tech and how it was created? We highly recommend The Social Dilemma, directed by our dear friend, Jeff Orlowski.

---

Reflection of the day:
How does knowing how you are being manipulated by Godlike technology make you feel about your phone usage?

---

Quote of the day:
"There are only two industries that call their customers 'users': illegal drugs and software." - Edward Tufte 