Read time: 4 minutes

Today is the 3rd day of your 5-Day Mini Course on Breaking Phone Addiction.

---LESSON 3 TLDR---
By far the #1 way to change habits? Change your environment. It can make even the hardest to break habits become easy to overcome.
-------------------

Today we're talking about:
1. The Surprising Story of Vietnam Vets and Heroin Addiction
2. Our 3 Favorite Ways to Break Phone Addiction

-----------------------------------

1. The Surprising Story of Vietnam Vets and Heroin Addiction

Hey {{.FirstName}},

Manny and Mike back with you.

Yesterday, we uncovered how social media platforms exploit our caveman brain and keep us glued to the screen. Today we'll talk about how to break free.

Here's the thing, willpower alone isn't enough. The Godlike technology is too powerful for most people's willpower. You gotta change your environment.

What's that mean? Here's a story from the end of the Vietnam War that illustrates how.

During the Vietnam War, heroin use among American soldiers was high. As heroin is incredibly addictive, one would assume this would create a massive problem at the end of the war, when the soldiers returned, right?

Wrong.

When these veterans returned home, an astonishing 90% stopped using heroin effortlessly.

This flew in the face of typical addiction recovery rates and shocked researchers.

How could that be? How could the veterans stop using one of the world's most addictive substances instantly?

The answer is simple: Their environment changed overnight.

You see, in Vietnam, heroin was everywhere. It was easy to get. It was the norm for social circles.

Back in the US, the environment was different. Heroin was no longer everywhere. It was difficult to get. The norm changed to raising kids.

Since the environment that fueled the habit was gone, the habit disappeared too.

-----------------------------------

2. Our 3 Favorite Ways to Break Phone Addiction

Just like those veterans, you can break free of phone addiction by changing your environment at home.

Here are our three favorite ways to do it:

1. Make Your Bedroom a Phone Free Zone. Just like moving back to the US made it harder for war veterans to access heroin, you can also make it harder to access your phone at home. An easy way to start? Make your bedroom a Phone Free Zone. Buy an old school alarm clock, put a bowl outside your bedroom door, and leave your phone in it before you enter. Boom! You got a phone free zone.

2. Make the Addictive Apps More Difficult to Use. In addition to making a phone free zone, we recommend using an app like OneSec that creates some friction before you compulsively open an app. You might think - doesn't this sound like Screen Time? Trust us, it's WAY better.

3. Turn Your Smart Phone into a Wise Phone. Want a fun challenge? If you want results fast, delete all apps on your phone that are addictive. That's right. Delete all your social media, dating apps, news apps, Netflix, stocks, games, and any app you can doomscroll. Don't worry you can always reinstall them later. Also, if you need to use them, you can use them on your computer. If you're on the fence about this one, we recommend to try it for a week. What do you have to lose?

---YOUR HOMEWORK---
Do at least ONE of these three methods TODAY after you finish work.
-----------------

All the best,
Manny and Mike

PS: If you try one of these three ways, you may have a bit of phone withdrawal (especially if you have a strong addiction!). In the next lesson we'll give tips on how to deal with this.

-----------------------------------

Reflection of the day:
How might your life improve if you got back 2-4 hours a day?

-----------------------------------

Quote of the day:
"Tweaking the environment is about making the right behaviors a little bit easier and the wrong behaviors a little bit harder." - Chip Heath & Dan Heath, Authors of #1 NYT Bestseller Switch: How to Change When Change is Hard. 