Read time: 4 minutes

Today is the 4th day of your 5-Day Mini Course on Breaking Phone Addiction.

----- LESSON 4 TLDR -----
If you start using your phone less, you may find yourself confused at first (i.e. reaching your phone and realizing it's not next to your bed anymore).

This is normal!

That new 'space' is an ideal opportunity to experiment with new routines that you feel great about.
------------------------

Hey {{.FirstName}},

Manny and Mike back, pushing you closer to phone freedom!

Yesterday, we armed you with powerful environmental changes to make phone use harder. Assuming you've done at least one of the tweaks, that means you'll start to have more time.

Today, we'll talk about what to do instead of reaching for your phone.

-----------------------

1. HABIT LOOP BREAK DOWN

The Habit Loop is a three-part neurological pattern that makes up our habits.

It starts with a CUE - a trigger that initiates a routine (i.e you feel tired or bored).

Second is a ROUTINE - which is the action you take (i.e. you pick up your phone).

Last is the REWARD - which is what your brain receives from the routine (i.e. you get a dopamine hit from watching the news. Note: This is what makes doom scrolling so addictive, you have a buffet of dopamine hits available 24/7).

So assuming you did your homework from Day 3's email - if you didn't, go back, there's still time! - you have effectively taken out the routine of being able to pick up your phone.

The thing is that, now your initial cue - i.e. boredom - is lonely with no routine to play with.

This means, if you don't replace your phone habit with a new routine, you may feel uncomfortable for longer than you'd like (and blame us for ruining your life!).

So what to do?

-----------------------

2. THREE IDEAS TO REMIX YOUR ROUTINE

So next time that cue of boredom, stress, overwhelmed or a negative emotion hits, instead of grabbing your phone, here's 3 routines you can experiment with:

1. Bring back #ReadingInBed - Put a book next to your bed and fall in love with reading again. It will also help your sleep! While you're at it, put a book next to places where you would normally use your phone too (i.e on your toilet, sofa, etc).

2. Make a morning ritual - Instead of looking at your phone first thing in the morning, design a simple 15-30 minute morning ritual. This could mean taking a walk, getting some morning sun, doing yoga, a quick HIIT workout, a run, etc.

3. Make an evening ritual - At least 30 minutes before bed - this could be combined with #ReadingInBed - try gratitude journaling, an evening stretch, a quick to-do list for the next day, meditation, prep a healthy meal for the next day, or anything that helps you wind down.

You'll find that any of these routines, you will get a reward that is more enjoyable, guilt-free, and far better for your health and productivity than doomscrolling.

One of the main reasons why? You're no longer a zombie glued to your screen. You're brain restores it's natural chemical balance. You are going from a passive life to an active one.

Give some new routines a try!

Let us know how they go!

All the best,

Manny and Mike

-----------------------

Reflection of the day:
How do you feel after you read, exercise, take a moment to pause (or meditate) or do something for your health? What would your life look like if you took a moment for yourself everyday?

-----------------------

Quote of the day:
"Look for magic in the daily routine." — Lou Barlow
