Read time: 4 minutes

Welcome to the 1st day of your 5-Day Mini Course on Breaking Phone Addiction from The Habits Company.

---LESSON 1 TLDR---
Phone addiction isn't just a time-waster. It's killing your focus, relationships, mental health, and even your body.
Ignoring it? Big mistake.
-------------------

1. The Shocking Amount of Time (and Life) You May Be Losing to Your Phone

Hey {{.FirstName}},

Manny and Mike here.

We didn't want to start with a downer. But we've decided to do so.

Because if you're reading this email, there's part of you that wants to change. And new habits sometimes start best when you recognize you have a problem.

Consider this: the average person loses 2-4 hours every single day on their phone. That's 14-28 hours a week. 14 working days a month. 168 working days a year.

To put this in perspective: Think about college. College = 4 years of your life. A significant chunk, right?

Here's what's crazy. The average person will spend 3x more time on their phone than in college alone – that's 12 years total!

Let. That. Sink. In.

We are literally losing our lives to our phones. The precious moments of your life slipping away, pixel by pixel. Hour by hour.

On the bright side, in this mini-course you'll learn how to reclaim 2-4 hours a day back to your life immediately.

That's the time you "don't have" to finally get in shape.

That's time to devote to your most important relationships.

That's a side hustle, waiting to be born.

A hobby, itching to be discovered.

A novel, waiting to be written.

A life, eager to be lived.

Ready to break free? Keep reading.

-----------------------------------

2. The Surprising Truth About Addiction

57% of Americans admit to being addicted to their phones. In Asia, the rates are higher.

Have you ever considered that you might be addicted too?

Now, you might say, "I'm not an addict type. I don't go on blackout benders. I don't gamble. My life is relatively normal. Heck, I even eat my vegetables!"

But as Dr. Jud Brewer, one of the world's top habit and addiction psychiatrists, says:

"(Addiction) isn't just the use of chemicals such as nicotine, alcohol and heroin. It's bigger than that. The simple definition of addiction is this: continued use despite adverse consequences."

So the better question is this: Is your phone usage negatively impacting your life in big or small ways? Despite these negative impacts, do you keep doing it every day?

If yes, the harsh truth is, you fit the classic definition of being an addict.

A few signs of phone addiction, include:
☐ You feel depressed, low motivation, and/or have low energy on a regular basis
☐ When you feel a negative emotion, you scroll on your phone to distract yourself
☐ You procrastinate regularly and/or have trouble staying focused
☐ Your phone is the last thing you look at before you sleep
☐ You don't sleep well
☐ Your phone is the first thing you look at when you wake up
☐ You scroll on your phone when you are with people you care about
☐ You feel guilty or disgusted after being on your phone for a long time
☐ You often scroll much longer than you want to

If you check at least a couple of these boxes, your addiction is light.

If you check more, you are more addicted than you realize.

You're not alone. The majority of the world suffers from phone addiction and they don't even know it.

Being stuck on our phones is the new smoking of our generation.

The good news is: breaking phone addiction is much easier than quitting smoking.

Ready to take back control? See you tomorrow!

Mike and Manny

PS: If you're reading this on your phone, please don't feel guilty (better to laugh at the irony!). Don't worry, we'll get you off in no time!

-----------------------------------

Reflection of the day:
How does your phone use currently negatively impact your life? Why do you continue to do it?

-----------------------------------

Quote of the day:
"Addiction is when you can't get enough of what you don't want any more." — Deepak Chopra 